
Briefly identify our background.

Iyer: Masters in EE. Was at Bosch building sensors and embedded systems.
Looking to focus on machine learning aspect in urstream.

Fan: Engineer in Urology. EE and biomedical eng. Interested in med device
applications.

Geoff: Urologist at Stanford. Want patients to benefit. Clinical insight.

Murugesan: Masters in bioengineering. Focus on hardware.

Yang:

Shortliffe:

Ideas:
Sound.
Vibration.

Iyer: Can use (?) and accelerometers to detect vibrations. Sensors not
sensitive enough.

Nguyen: No further progress.

Need more leadership. Someone who knows more about mechanical aspects of
sensors.
Geoff and Shortliffe have clinical insight, but no expertise on mechanical.
Talked to Fan; willing to take project on.

Fan: Want to touch base wrt clinical aspects. Can help navigate things when he
finds out where everybody is located. Has insight into mechanical aspect.

Fergus wants to focus on translational aspect. Once we have an idea, he will
come onboard to move towards funding.

Stanford has program called "Biodesign".
Med tech.
Whole framework they use to talk about clinical needs, milestones we need.
Can try to fit this project into that framework.
Will send out doc.
May turn into university project as opposed to side project.
Everyone will be named.
In end, Stanford will want a share.

MIT also goes through similar process.

No need to rush this into university system, but it may be helpful.
Should consider in the future.

Going forward, look to Fan.
Set up schedule for meetings.
Should have meetings that include clinicians.
Two tracks: engineering and clinical.
Can meet less frequently with clinicians; let engineers do their thing.

Specific clinical needs:
Want simple and cheap way to assess flow rate.
One-time or multiple-use.
Can integrate into diary where we would know, given approximation of volumes,
can plug into frequency.
Completely automated.
What are force and volume?

Sophisticated devices exist.
Want simple, unobtrusive, and uninvasive.

Parameters: maximum flow rate, duration of urination

Question: Are we still interested in volume?
Answer: May be a flow problem.

Should concentrate on either males or females first.
Once we get things working, can translate to other.
Males is better to focus on.

Question: How do these metrics facilitate diagnosis?
Answer: Can distinguish between different problems.

Something cheap that can be picked up from drug store.

Throwaway or cheap thing physician has in office.
In office may be nice because can help decide urinalysis vs. uroflow.

Question: What distinguishes hyperplasia from stricture?
Answer: Max flow rate is good distinguishing factor.

Uroflowmeter is the go-to for clinicians.
Simple and noninvasive.
This is the bucket.

Question: How does machine learning help?
Answer: Can help us distinguish different parameters and how much those imply
diagnosis. However, right now, we are not doing dianoses with these devices.

Need to scope this problem.
There are so many things we can measure.
We want to scope the specific thing we want to measure from urinary function.
How much can we differentiate the inputs.
Does what we are aiming for make sense?

What are specific urinary pathologies we want to identify?
What do we want to be able to recognize?
Answer: We do not necessarily want to distinguish one pathology from another.
We simply want to identify when there is a problem. If slow flow, want to
evaluate more.

Do we have numbers from literature.
Yes.

Geoff and Fan busy until next month.

In week and half, look over the biodesign doc.
10 days or so.

Shortliffe will draw up some literature.

Need to look into what is out there and available now?
Would be surprising that there is not something out there.
Not just academic research, but Google scrub.

Iyer: There is Swedish company trying to incorporate this into their smart
toilet.

Next availability:
02/09
